Skip to Main Content
Submit


	•	All Recipes
	◦	Recipe Search
	◦	Recipe Index
	◦	The Basics
	◦	Stage One
	◦	Stage Two
	◦	Stage Three
	◦	Baby-Led Weaning
	◦	4-6 Months
	◦	6-9 Months
	◦	9-12 Months
	◦	Toddlers
	◦	Kids
	◦	Preschoolers
	◦	Family Meals
	•	Purees
	•	Breakfasts
	•	Snacks
	•	Dinners
	•	About
Get the Guides Shop!


Guides and Courses! Shop
	•	All Recipes
	◦	Recipe Search
	◦	Recipe Index
	◦	The Basics
	◦	Stage One
	◦	Stage Two
	◦	Stage Three
	◦	Baby-Led Weaning
	◦	4-6 Months
	◦	6-9 Months
	◦	9-12 Months
	◦	Toddlers
	◦	Kids
	◦	Preschoolers
	◦	Family Meals
	•	Purees
	•	Breakfasts
	•	Snacks
	•	Dinners
	•	About
	•

How to Feed Your Baby (get the free guide!)
Subscribe Now
Home » Recipe Type » Dinner » Baked Chicken & Veggie Meatballs for Baby (and Kids, Too!)
Baked Chicken & Veggie Meatballs for Baby (and Kids, Too!)
by Michele Olivier on February 19, 2025 (updated Feb 14, 2026)
This post may contain affiliate links. If you make a purchase through links on our site, we may earn a commission.
Jump to Recipe Step by Step Jump to Video

5 stars (94 ratings)
These 5-Star Baked Chicken Meatballs are a perfect first finger food for your baby, but don't be surprised when the rest of the family starts popping them in their mouths as well! Filled with ground chicken, carrots, spinach, and applesauce – these meatballs are a healthy (and completely addictive) food for babies, toddlers, kids, and the entire family!


5 stars (94 ratings)
"I have already made these meatballs a handful of times and they always come out so moist and tasty. My little loves them and they are so easy to add to a pasta or in a quesadilla, the possibilities are endless. " -Stephanie
Add your comment
One meal. All ages. Zero complaints.
Enter: these juicy chicken meatballs with hidden veggies.
I made the first batch when my daughter was 8 months old and just starting to explore real food. The OG version was just ground chicken and breadcrumbs—super basic. But then I started playing around…
A handful of spinach here. Some shredded carrot there. A scoop of applesauce to lock in moisture.
Boom. We had a winner.
Fast-forward 10 years, and I've made this recipe hundreds of times. They show up on pasta, in lunchboxes, inside pita sandwiches, or straight up with some fruit and cukes on the side. The baby loves them. The big kids love them. And yep—I do too.
#momhack – I like to make a double batch so you can eat some and then freeze some for later. I like to bake mine before placing them into a zip-lock baggie and freezing them until needed. I then simply pop them into the microwave for 1-2 minutes, or until they are warm all the way through.
Ground Chicken Meatballs Video

Let's Get Baking
Gather all of the ingredients.
All ingredients go into a bowl.
Mix with your hands or a spoon (you do you!) until well incorporated.
Using a spoon or cookie scoop, section out balls onto a baking sheet.
Using slightly wet hands, shape and pack balls.
Bake until cooked all the way through.


Get the recipe: Baked Chicken & Veggie Meatballs for Baby (and Kids, Too!)

5 stars (94 ratings)
These 5-Star Healthy Chicken Meatballs are a perfect first finger food for your baby, but don't be surprised when the rest of the family starts popping them in their mouths as well! Filled with ground chicken, carrots, spinach, and applesauce – these meatballs are a healthy (and completely addicting) food for babies, toddlers, kids, and the entire family!
Yield: 24 1″ meatballs
Prep: 5
minutes
minutes
Cook: 20
minutes
minutes
Total: 25
minutes
minutes
Author: Michele Olivier
Course: Main Course
Cuisine: American
Print Recipe Pin Recipe Save
Ingredients
1x2x3x
	•	1 lb ground chicken (or ground turkey)
	•	1/4 cup applesauce or apple puree, no sugar added
	•	1/2 cup carrot, finely shredded
	•	1/2 cup spinach, finely chopped
	•	1/4 cup green onion, chopped
	•	1 egg
	•	1/2 cup breadcrumbs (regular or panko)
	•	1 tbsp olive oil
	•	1/2 tsp cumin
	•	salt and pepper, to taste
Instructions

	•	Pre-heat the oven to 400 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper, silicone mat or tin foil.
	•	In a large bowl, place all of the ingredients. Gently fold together with your hands or spatula until everything is well incorporated. Let sit for 5 minutes.
	•	Roll meat mixture into 1″ balls. I find it helps to wet your hands throughout the process.
	•	Place the meatballs onto the baking sheet and bake for 15-20 minutes or until meatballs are cooked through and gently browned.
	•	Let cool and serve.


Notes
Age: 6 Months and up

Yield: 24-30 meatballs, depending on size

Storage: you can store these meatballs in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 4 days or in the freezer for up to 3 months.

Fun Combos: The best part of this recipe is that it is totally adjustable to what you have on hand. Keeping the base ingredients you can switch out the carrots and spinach for anything you have on hand. Just make sure it is finely chopped.


	•	spinach & leeks
	•	broccoli & cheddar
	•	red peppers & feta
	•	carrots & sweet potato
Serving: 1meatball, Calories: 32kcal, Carbohydrates: 2.9g, Protein: 2.5g, Fat: 0.3g, Saturated Fat: 0.3g, Cholesterol: 19mg, Sodium: 31mg, Fiber: 0.5g, Sugar: 0.4g, Calcium: 30mg, Iron: 2mg
Did you make this recipe?
Tag @babyfoode on Instagram and hashtag it #babyfoode!
Rate Recipe Pin Recipe Email a Friend
Medically reviewed and cowritten by Jamie Johnson, Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN), and Lauren Braaten, Pediatric Occupational Therapist (OT).

	•
	•
	•
9-12 Months Baby-Led Weaning Dairy Free Dinner Family Finger Foods Food Hidden Veggie Kids Lunch at Home Nut Free Preschoolers Toddlers
originally published on February 19, 2025 (updated Feb 14, 2026)
163 comments Leave a comment »
free guide when you subscribe! How to Feed Your Baby
	•


Choose Guide HereBaby Food PureesBaby Led Weaning (6+ Months)Finger Foods (9+ Months)Toddler Recipes



« Previous PostBlack Bean & Cumin Baby Food (Puree & BLW)
Next Post » Kid-Requested Crispy Pita Pizzas (oven or air-fryer)



5 from 94 votes (70 ratings without comment)
Leave a Comment & Rate this Recipe!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment *
Recipe Rating
Recipe Rating





Name *
Email *
Notify me if BabyFoode replies to my comment

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
	1	163 Comments on "Baked Chicken & Veggie Meatballs for Baby (and Kids, Too!)"
	2	Ann — March 6, 2026 @ 7:30 pm Reply   Awesome recipe! Made for my nine month old grandaughter she absolutely loved them!! I just sautéed the veggies for a bit so they were extra soft My husband was also snacking on them! Super healthy as well!
	◦	Michele Olivier — April 25, 2026 @ 6:43 pm Reply  That's a good idea, Ann! Glad they were a hit with the whole crew! 💜, Michele
	3	Shreya — February 15, 2026 @ 11:39 pm Reply   This recipe was a huge success with my toddler who has been increasingly finicky about food
	◦	Michele Olivier — April 25, 2026 @ 5:09 pm Reply  Yay! When it comes to finicky toddlers, I'll take any win I can. Been there. Twice. xo, Michele
	4	Nat — December 10, 2025 @ 5:34 pm Reply  This looks great. Just a question, at what age do you introduce salt to a baby?
	◦	Michele Olivier — January 16, 2026 @ 3:13 pm Reply  Hi Nat! I do have a post on that. However, if you have any concerns, please contact your pediatrician first.
	5	Ali — November 2, 2025 @ 11:47 pm Reply   My kids love these meatballs. They're simple to make, and they don't even realize I put veggies in them! I always use turkey, and I also tweak the seasonings to my own liking, and I also make my own sauce. Makes enough for 2 meals. I usually freeze half of them for another meal. Definitely recommend.
	◦	Michele Olivier — November 9, 2025 @ 12:07 am Reply  Hi Ali! Great ideas all around! Thank you so much for sharing your results. 💕, Michele
More Comments:
« Previous 1 2
Looking for Something?
Submit
Little Foodie
Baby Food Recipes for Babiesand Toddlers with Taste
Buy Now


Reader Favorites
Spoon-Worthy Blueberry Baby Food (puree & blw)
Ultimate Guide to Finger Foods for Baby
Fan-Favorite Blueberry Avocado Mini Muffins
Baked Chicken & Veggie Meatballs for Baby (and Kids, Too!)



Homemade Baby Purees (Stage 1)
	•	Avocado Puree
	•	Apple Puree
	•	Banana Puree
Best of Baby-Led Weaning
	◦	Apple Banana Carrot (ABC) Muffins
	•	Banana Pancakes for Baby
Browse
	•	Shop
	•	Baby Purees
Info
	•	About
	•	Editorial Guidelines
	•	Contact

©2026 Baby Foode. All Rights Reserved.
	•	Privacy Policy
Design by Purr.
