Skip to content
Sign up & save 10% off your 1st order!
Newsletter
	•	Shop
	•	Recipes
Search


	•	Shop
	•	Recipes
	•	Mediterranean Diet
	•	Cookbooks
	•	Tours
	•	About
Home › Recipe Index › Fish and Seafood
Baked Cod Recipe with Lemon and Garlic

4.76 from 1766 votes
by
Suzy Karadsheh
Updated: Nov 21, 2025
JUMP TO RECIPEJUMP TO VIDEOADD AS A TRUSTED GOOGLE SOURCE
	•
	•
	•
This easy baked cod recipe comes together in just over 20 minutes, but there is a reason it is a big fan favorite! Tender, perfectly flaky cod, tossed in bold Mediterranean spices and baked with a tasty garlic and lemon sauce.
Photo Credits: Suzy Karadsheh
Fish is one of the staples of the Mediterranean diet, so my family tries to eat fish about twice per week.
Luckily, there are so many ways to prepare a tasty fish dinner. Sometimes, I go for a big baked salmon, a hearty fish soup, or something different like a saucy Moroccan fish.
But one of my favorite go-to dinners is this easy lemon baked cod! And it is the #1 fish recipe on my site, for good reason!
Why This Cod Recipe Works
Cod fillet is a beautiful fish that is quick to cook, tender and mild-tasting so you can easily give it some big flavors!
This baked cod recipe takes on some bold Mediterranean flavors with a tasty garlic and lemon sauce and a few warm spices, including coriander, paprika, and cumin.
Best part? You can make this lemon baked cod in just over 20 minutes from start-to-finish!
Can I Use Frozen Cod Fish in This Recipe?
Fresh vs. frozen? This is one of the questions I get regularly about cooking with fish. More often than not, frozen is the better option for quality wild-caught fish.
Depending on where you live in the States, the "fresh" fish you may find sitting on ice at the fish counter was likely frozen and thawed before it was displayed. Whereas, flash frozen fish is caught and quickly frozen at the peak of its freshness, and it is often more affordable.
If you find quality frozen fish fillet (sometimes labeled cod loin), it will work in this baked cod recipe but be sure to thaw it properly before use.

How to Thaw Frozen Fish?
Frozen fish fillets thaw quickly in about 15 to 20 minutes. Here is how:
	•	First, be sure to leave the fish in its vacuum-packaging. If it is not in some sort of packaging, place it in a zip-top bag (do not place it water "naked").
	•	Arrange the vacuum-sealed fish in a bowl and cover it with cold tap water. Do NOT use warm or hot water; This creates more risk for bacterial growth and will also affect the texture of the fish,
	•	Check after 15 to 20 minutes to see if the fish feels tender and thawed through. If it is hard in some parts, leave it in for a little big longer.
How to Bake Cod and What Temperature is Best?
First, what temperature should cod be cooked at? For baked cod, I typically set my oven to 400 degrees F. How long? Depending on the thickness of your cod fillet, it could take about 10 to 15 minutes in the oven.
In this cod recipe, I use about 1 1/2 pounds of cod fillet, and it helps to use a large oven-safe baking dish or a cast-iron skillet. Here is how to make it:
	•	First, start by lightly coating the cod fillets in some well-seasoned flour. To do this, prepare a dredging station.
	◦	In one shallow bowl prepare the lemon sauce by mixing together 5 tbsp fresh lemon juice, 5 tbsp extra virgin olive oil, and 2 tbsp melted butter.
	◦	In another shallow bowl, mix together 1/3 cup all-purpose flour with 1 tsp ground coriander, 3/4 tsp sweet Spanish paprika, 3/4 tsp ground cumin, and 3/4 tsp kosher salt.
	◦	Dip the fish in the lemon sauce, then coat it well with the flour mixture. Keep the lemon sauce for later use.
	•	Sear the fish. To give the cod some good color and texture, sear it in olive oil for about 2 minutes on each side.
	•	Add the lemon sauce. Now, to the lemon sauce, add 5 minced garlic cloves (so much flavor), then pour it over the cod.
	•	Bake in 400 degrees F heated oven for about 10 minutes or until the cod is cooked through. The fish is ready when it turns a beautiful white opaque and flakes easily when you take a fork to it.
	•	Garnish and serve! I love adding some parsley for a pop of green!
What to Serve With This Cod Recipe?
To complete this fish dinner, I always like to add a big salad and a simple side. I have some ideas that will go perfectly with this cod. To add more Greek flavors, try out our Greek salad. Or give this Lebanese fattoush salad a try. If you're looking for some beans in your salad, try our Mediterranean bean salad or chickpea salad.
For vegetarian sides, you might want to try out these hearty recipes: roasted broccoli, asparagus with salsa, or stuffed zucchini boats.
For starchy sides, give these a try: mustard potato salad, Greek-style oven fries, or lemon rice.
And to keep with a Greek theme, why not add a dip like Miletzanosalata (Greek eggplant dip) or Tzatziki with some pita chips to serve!

Can I Refrigerate or Freeze Leftover Cooked Fish?
When I make this baked cod recipe, I don't typically have leftovers. And as with all fish recipes, it is best eaten fresh on the day it is cooked, particularly because often times the fish was already frozen before it was cooked.
But, a reader recently asked this relevant question as she cooks for fewer people. Depending on how fresh the fish was to begin with, you can store the leftovers either in the fridge or even in the freezer. First, cool the fish a little, but don't leave it in room temperature for more than 1 hour before refrigerating or freezing.
Arrange the cod in a shallow glass container with a tight lid and refrigerate for up to 2 days. If you need to warm it up, simply use a medium-heated oven until just warmed through (there is always a chance the fish will be overcooked when you warm it up again).
Generally, cooked fish can be frozen for up to 1 month. My personal preference is not to freeze it, because I feel the texture of the fish changes a little.
Love Cod? Try These Recipes Next!
	•	Grilled Cod with Pistachio-Herb Salsa
	•	One-Skillet Fish Provençal
	•	Tomato and Pepper Poached Cod
More Baked Fish Recipes

Fish and Seafood
Easy Baked Fish with Garlic and Basil

Entree
Baked Halibut with Lemon and Dill

Fish and Seafood
Baked Trout with Lemon, Garlic, and Fresh Herbs

Fish and Seafood
Baked Lemon Garlic Salmon
Browse all Mediterranean recipes.
Visit Our Shop.


4.76 FROM 1766 VOTES
Baked Cod Recipe with Lemon and Garlic

Print Recipe

Pin Recipe

Rate this Recipe

ADD AS A TRUSTED GOOGLE SOURCE
SUZY KARADSHEH

Best baked cod recipe out there! Prepared Mediterranean style with a few spices and a mixture of lemon juice, olive oil and lots of garlic. Bakes in 15 mins!

PREP – 10
MINUTES
MINS
COOK – 12
MINUTES
MINS
TOTAL – 22
MINUTES
MINS
Cuisine:

GREEK

SERVES – 5 PEOPLE (UP TO)
Course:

ENTREE
Ingredients


1X2X3X
	•	▢  1.5 lb Cod fillet pieces, 4-6 pieces
	•	▢  1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley leaves
Lemon Sauce
	•	▢  5 tbsp fresh lemon juice
	•	▢  5 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
	•	▢  2 tbsp melted butter
	•	▢  5 garlic cloves, minced
For Coating
	•	▢  1/3 cup all-purpose flour
	•	▢  1 tsp ground coriander
	•	▢  3/4 tsp sweet Spanish paprika
	•	▢  3/4 tsp ground cumin
	•	▢  3/4 tsp salt
	•	▢  1/2 tsp black pepper
Instructions


	•	Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
	•	Mix together the lemon juice, olive oil, and melted butter in a shallow bowl (do not add the garlic yet). Set aside.
	•	In another shallow bowl, mix the all-purpose flour, spices, salt and pepper. Set next to the lemon sauce.
	•	Pat the fish dry. Dip the fish in the lemon sauce then dip it in the flour mixture. Shake off excess flour. Reserve the lemon sauce for later.
	•	Heat 2 tbsp olive oil in a cast iron skillet (or an oven-safe pan) over medium-high heat (watch the oil to be sure it is shimmering but not smoking). Add the fish and sear on each side to give it some color, but do not fully cook (about 2 minutes on each side). Remove the skillet from heat.
	•	To the remaining lemon sauce, add the minced garlic and mix. Drizzle all over the fish fillets.
	•	Bake in the heated oven until the fish flakes easily with a fork (10 minutes should do it, but begin checking earlier). Remove from the heat and sprinkle chopped parsley. Serve immediately.

Video


Notes

	•	Serving suggestions: Serve immediately with Lebanese rice and this Mediterranean chickpea salad or traditional Greek salad.
	•	Cook's Tip: This recipe has been edited adding step #5 to achieve more color. Be sure to use a fish spatula to carefully turn the fish in the skillet.
	•	Leftover Storage: If you have any leftovers, let the fish cool a bit, then arrange in a shallow glass container with a tight lid. You can refrigerate for 2 to 3 days, or freeze for up to one month. My personal preference is not to freeze fish as, sometimes, the texture does change.
	•	Visit our shop to browse quality Mediterranean ingredients including olive oils and spices.
Nutrition

Calories: 319.3kcalCarbohydrates: 9.6gProtein: 25.8gFat: 19.8gSaturated Fat: 5gTrans Fat: 0.2gCholesterol: 70.6mgSodium: 466.1mgPotassium: 641.5mgFiber: 1.2gSugar: 0.5gVitamin A: 603.3IUVitamin C: 14.2mgCalcium: 45.3mgIron: 1.7mg

Tried this recipe?
Mention @Themediterraneandish Or Tag #Themediterraneandish!
Bundle and Save!
Four of our best-selling signature olive oils, perfect for everyday use.
BUY NOW

*This post has recently been updated with new information for the readers' benefit.
Share it with the world
FacebookYummlyPinFlipboard

Founder and CEO of The Mediterranean Dish | Two-time New York Times Best Selling Cookbook Author | Specializing in Mediterranean Cuisine
Suzy Karadsheh is a true daughter of the Mediterranean. She was born on the coast of Egypt in the bustling cosmopolitan city of Port Said, the North entrance of the Suez Canal, and just a boat ride away from places like Italy, Greece, Turkey, Lebanon, Palestine, and Israel. LEARN MORE
Get our best recipes and all Things Mediterranean delivered to your inbox.
Email Name Address
Name *
Email Address *


SIGN ME UP!


4.76 from 1766 votes (870 ratings without comment)
Leave a comment
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
How many stars would you give this recipe?
Comment *
Name *
Email *

This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Comments
	1	Pauline says:  August 17, 2026 at 12:31 pm    First time cooking this and it was absolutely delicious. Just a small tip when you dip the cod swop hands to dip in the flour otherwise you'll end up with more flour on your fingers than on the cod and it will make a mess of your flour.  Reply
	1	TMD Team says:  August 18, 2026 at 2:07 pm   Thanks for the tip, Pauline!  Reply
	2	Lidia Bayliss says:  August 14, 2026 at 4:14 pm    This is so delicious! We absolutely love it. I don't add paprika and cut back a bit on salt. And leftovers are wonderful. Thank you!  Reply
	3	Jane Saret says:  August 11, 2026 at 2:39 pm    I am going to make this recipe tomorrow. I have 2 skin on cod fillets that are pretty skinny. Would I use the same method? Thank you. Kind Regards, Jane  Reply
	1	TMD Team says:  August 11, 2026 at 3:17 pm   Hi, Jane. I recommend removing the skin first. You can use the same cooking method, but if the fillets are pretty thin, they'll likely cook faster, so just keep an eye on them.  Reply
	4	chrissiehibbert says:  August 1, 2026 at 5:56 am    I've made this five times and it never fails. Also have with Lebanese rice  Reply
	5	Lona Kirk says:  July 30, 2026 at 8:23 pm    Excellent recipe! My new fav cod recipe. Loved the two minute sizzle on each side in cast iron pan. Added a few whole cherry tomatoes for a little color.  Reply
Comment navigation
OLDER COMMENTS


Welcome to The Mediterranean Dish!
The internet's #1 resource for modern Mediterranean cooking.
© 2026 The Mediterranean Dish.
	•	Contact Us
	•	Policies and Disclosures
	•	Terms of Use
